api/src/docs/asciidocs/reference.adoc, before:

:apiname: Loot API

= {apiname} Reference
SenorPez;
:doctype: book
:icons: font
:source-highlighter: highlight.js
:toc: left
:toclevels: 4
:sectlinks:

[[overview]]
== Overview

[[overview-versions]]
=== Versions

There is only a single version of {apiname}.

.{apiname} Versions
|===
| API Versions | Accept Header

| Version 1.0
| `application/hal+json`
|===

[[overview-http-methods]]
=== HTTP Methods
The following HTTP methods are compatible with {apiname}.

.Supported HTTP Methods
|===
| Method | Usage

| `GET`
| Used to retrieve a resource.

| `POST`
| Used to create a new resource.

| `PUT`
| Used to update an existing resource.
|===

[[overview-http-status-codes]]
=== HTTP Status Codes

The following HTTP status codes are returned by requests to {apiname}. Any other status codes returned may indicate general connection or server failure and are not returned by the API itself.

.HTTP Status Codes
|===
| Status Code | Usage

| `200 OK`
| The GET request succeeded. The requested resource is returned in the response.

| `201 Created`
| The POST request succeeded. The created resource is returned in the response.

| `400 Bad Request`
| The request can not processed, possibly due to malformed syntax or another error. Individual endpoints describe the syntax of requests. An error message is sent in the response.

| `402 Payment Required`
| This code is reserved for when I need extra money.

| `404 Not Found`
| The requested resource could not be found. An error message is sent in the response.

| `405 Method Not Allowed`
| The requested method is not allowed. See <<overview-http-methods, HTTP Methods>> and individual endpoint documentation for a list of supported methods. An error message is sent in the response.

| `406 Not Acceptable`
| The `Accept` header of the request is not supported. Individual endpoints describe supported `Accept` headers. An error message is sent in the response.

| `415 Unsupported Media Type`
| The `Content-Type` header of the request is not supported. Individual endpoints describe supported `Content-Type` headers. An error message is sent in the response.
|===

[[overview-errors]]
=== Errors

If {apiname} returns and error, the response contains a JSON object describing the error.

.Error Fields

TODO: ERROR

[[overview-hypermedia]]
=== Hypermedia

{apiname} conforms to the http://stateless.co/hal_specification.html[Hypertext Application Language (HAL)] standard.

* Resources are represented by key-value pairs.
* Collections of resources are contained in an `_embedded` field. Fields of embedded resources may be transformed or omitted.
** Embedded resources contain a `_links` field with a `self` link to access that resource. Other `_links` fields may be transformed or omitted.
* Links to other resources are contained in a `_links` field.
** Users should not create URIs but use the `_links` fields and values to navigate the API.
** Some resources may be represented by multiple `_links` values depending on the position in the API hierarchy. With the exception of the `_links` field, these resources are identical regardless of the link used to reach them.

The following fields are present in the `_links` value of every non-embedded resource:

.Common Links

TODO: Common Links

== Loot Resources

[[resources-loot-lootitems]]
=== Items

The items endpoint supports the following methods:
|===
| Method | Description

| <<resources-loot-lootitems-get, GET>>
| Provides a list of item resources.

|<<resources-loot-lootitems-post, POST>>
| Creates a new item resource.
|===

[[resources-loot-lootitems-get]]
==== GET

Provides a list of item resources.

.Request Headers

include::{snippets}/lootitems/request-headers.adoc[]

.Response Headers

include::{snippets}/lootitems/response-headers.adoc[]

.Response Fields

include::{snippets}/lootitems/response-fields.adoc[]

.Response Links

include::{snippets}/lootitems/links.adoc[]

[[resources-loot-lootitems-post]]
==== POST

Creates a new item resource. If successful, returns the newly created item resource.

.Request Headers

include::{snippets}/lootitems-post/request-headers.adoc[]

.Request Fields

include::{snippets}/lootitems-post/request-fields.adoc[]

.Response Headers

include::{snippets}/lootitems-post/response-headers.adoc[]

.Response Fields

include::{snippets}/lootitems-post/response-fields.adoc[]

.Response Links

include::{snippets}/lootitems-post/links.adoc[]

[[resources-loot-lootitem]]
=== Item

The item endpoint supports the following methods:

|===
| Method | Description

| <<resources-loot-lootitem-get, GET>>
| Provides a single item resource.

|<<resources-loot-lootitem-put, POST>>
| Updates a single item resource.
|===

[[resources-loot-lootitem-get]]
==== GET

Provides a single item resource.

.Request Headers

include::{snippets}/lootitem-get/request-headers.adoc[]

.Response Headers

include::{snippets}/lootitem-get/response-headers.adoc[]

.Fields

include::{snippets}/lootitem-get/response-fields.adoc[]

.Links

include::{snippets}/lootitem-get/links.adoc[]

[[resources-loot-lootitem-put]]
==== PUT

Updates a single item resource.

.Request Headers

include::{snippets}/lootitem-put/request-headers.adoc[]

.Request Fields

include::{snippets}/lootitem-put/request-fields.adoc[]

.Response Headers

include::{snippets}/lootitem-put/response-headers.adoc[]

.Response Fields

include::{snippets}/lootitem-put/response-fields.adoc[]

.Response Links

include::{snippets}/lootitem-put/links.adoc[]

Commit message:

Documentation of AUthorization headers (Item only at this time).

api/src/docs/asciidocs/reference.adoc, after:

:apiname: Loot API

= {apiname} Reference
SenorPez;
:doctype: book
:icons: font
:source-highlighter: highlight.js
:toc: left
:toclevels: 4
:sectlinks:

[[overview]]
== Overview

[[overview-versions]]
=== Versions

There is only a single version of {apiname}.

.{apiname} Versions
|===
| API Versions | Accept Header

| Version 1.0
| `application/hal+json`
|===

[[overview-http-methods]]
=== HTTP Methods
The following HTTP methods are compatible with {apiname}.

.Supported HTTP Methods
|===
| Method | Usage

| `GET`
| Used to retrieve a resource.

| `POST`
| Used to create a new resource.

| `PUT`
| Used to update an existing resource.
|===

[[overview-http-status-codes]]
=== HTTP Status Codes

The following HTTP status codes are returned by requests to {apiname}. Any other status codes returned may indicate general connection or server failure and are not returned by the API itself.

.HTTP Status Codes
|===
| Status Code | Usage

| `200 OK`
| The GET request succeeded. The requested resource is returned in the response.

| `201 Created`
| The POST request succeeded. The created resource is returned in the response.

| `400 Bad Request`
| The request can not processed, possibly due to malformed syntax or another error. Individual endpoints describe the syntax of requests. An error message is sent in the response.

| `402 Payment Required`
| This code is reserved for when I need extra money.

| `404 Not Found`
| The requested resource could not be found. An error message is sent in the response.

| `405 Method Not Allowed`
| The requested method is not allowed. See <<overview-http-methods, HTTP Methods>> and individual endpoint documentation for a list of supported methods. An error message is sent in the response.

| `406 Not Acceptable`
| The `Accept` header of the request is not supported. Individual endpoints describe supported `Accept` headers. An error message is sent in the response.

| `415 Unsupported Media Type`
| The `Content-Type` header of the request is not supported. Individual endpoints describe supported `Content-Type` headers. An error message is sent in the response.
|===

[[overview-errors]]
=== Errors

If {apiname} returns and error, the response contains a JSON object describing the error.

.Error Fields

TODO: ERROR

[[overview-hypermedia]]
=== Hypermedia

{apiname} conforms to the http://stateless.co/hal_specification.html[Hypertext Application Language (HAL)] standard.

* Resources are represented by key-value pairs.
* Collections of resources are contained in an `_embedded` field. Fields of embedded resources may be transformed or omitted.
** Embedded resources contain a `_links` field with a `self` link to access that resource. Other `_links` fields may be transformed or omitted.
* Links to other resources are contained in a `_links` field.
** Users should not create URIs but use the `_links` fields and values to navigate the API.
** Some resources may be represented by multiple `_links` values depending on the position in the API hierarchy. With the exception of the `_links` field, these resources are identical regardless of the link used to reach them.

The following fields are present in the `_links` value of every non-embedded resource:

.Common Links

TODO: Common Links

[[overview-authorization]]
=== Authorization

Some endpoints of {apiname} require an `Authorization` header. The header is a JSON Web Token generated by the authorization server; the header content is `bearer <token>`.

Token generation is handled automatically by the Discord Bot. If you would like to create an application that can access secured resources, create an issue at http://github.com/scaling-chainsaw.

== Loot Resources

[[resources-loot-lootitems]]
=== Items

The items endpoint supports the following methods:
|===
| Method | Description

| <<resources-loot-lootitems-get, GET>>
| Provides a list of item resources.

|<<resources-loot-lootitems-post, POST>>
| Creates a new item resource.
|===

[[resources-loot-lootitems-get]]
==== GET

Provides a list of item resources.

.Request Headers

include::{snippets}/lootitems/request-headers.adoc[]

.Response Headers

include::{snippets}/lootitems/response-headers.adoc[]

.Response Fields

include::{snippets}/lootitems/response-fields.adoc[]

.Response Links

include::{snippets}/lootitems/links.adoc[]

[[resources-loot-lootitems-post]]
==== POST

Creates a new item resource. If successful, returns the newly created item resource.

.Request Headers

include::{snippets}/lootitems-post/request-headers.adoc[]

.Request Fields

include::{snippets}/lootitems-post/request-fields.adoc[]

.Response Headers

include::{snippets}/lootitems-post/response-headers.adoc[]

.Response Fields

include::{snippets}/lootitems-post/response-fields.adoc[]

.Response Links

include::{snippets}/lootitems-post/links.adoc[]

[[resources-loot-lootitem]]
=== Item

The item endpoint supports the following methods:

|===
| Method | Description

| <<resources-loot-lootitem-get, GET>>
| Provides a single item resource.

|<<resources-loot-lootitem-put, POST>>
| Updates a single item resource.
|===

[[resources-loot-lootitem-get]]
==== GET

Provides a single item resource.

.Request Headers

include::{snippets}/lootitem-get/request-headers.adoc[]

.Response Headers

include::{snippets}/lootitem-get/response-headers.adoc[]

.Fields

include::{snippets}/lootitem-get/response-fields.adoc[]

.Links

include::{snippets}/lootitem-get/links.adoc[]

[[resources-loot-lootitem-put]]
==== PUT

Updates a single item resource.

.Request Headers

include::{snippets}/lootitem-put/request-headers.adoc[]

.Request Fields

include::{snippets}/lootitem-put/request-fields.adoc[]

.Response Headers

include::{snippets}/lootitem-put/response-headers.adoc[]

.Response Fields

include::{snippets}/lootitem-put/response-fields.adoc[]

.Response Links

include::{snippets}/lootitem-put/links.adoc[]
